How do we run code in JavaScript.
Well we assign variables and then we run functions.
Right.
That's all we really do in a language so take a look at the code over here.
Every time we run a function let's say if we call the Say My Name function we add these brackets to
it and then we're able to execute that function or run it the JavaScript engine is going to look at
this and say aha here's a task for me.
Tell me what to do.
Mr. function and as soon as the JavaScript engine sees these brackets it's going to create something
called an execution context but we'll get to that in a second.
If we run this function say my name is going to be run which is going to return fine name which is going
to return print name which is going to return my name.
All right.
That's a pretty convoluted way of doing things.
But if I run this we see that it prints Andre Nagai.
So what is happening here.
Well when the JavaScript engine sees those brackets it's going to say oh I'm going to run a function
and create an execution context.
So the first thing it does is create an execution context say my name and add this execution context
onto the stack.
Remember our call stack right.
And then it tries to run this function and sees that this function is calling another function.
So I'm going to create a new execution context because I'm going to see these brackets.
That's called find my name.
And there we have it.
Another item that gets pushed onto the stack and then that function.
Once again the JavaScript engine is going to see oh here's another bracket pair brackets print name.
Let's run this function and then this function after it's created its own execution context is going
to return the string.
Andre Agassi which gets returned to find my name which gets returned to say my name.
And then eventually the call stack all gets popped off and we return onto the screen.
Andre Agassi it's really weird saying my own name while doing this.
Next time I'm going to pick a different name.
So if we take a look back onto our code this should make sense.
We're adding items onto the call stack which we've talked about before but this time I've introduced
to this idea of execution context.
Now before we get into exactly what this execution context means I may have lied to you the diagram
that we just saw isn't 100 percent accurate because the base execution context that runs is called the
Global execution context.
This is what I mean initially our JavaScript engine is going to create a global execution context.
We don't see this.
It's underneath the hood but it's saying hey here's the javascript file for you.
Just start reading it for me.
And on top of that that's when we start adding say my name.
Then find my name then print name.
And then eventually as these execution context get popped off the last thing that remains is the global
execution context.
And when the final line of our code runs and we're done with the JavaScript engine this is going to
get popped off the stack so just from what we've learned.
If I tell you whenever code is run in JavaScript it is run inside of an execution context.
Is that a true statement or a false statement.
Well it's true right.
Anytime we run code in JavaScript it's always going to be part of an execution context.
That is it's part of global or inside of some function that we call now we're gonna get back to this
topic a little bit deeper later on.
But if we take a look at the global execution context remember that's the very first item on the stack.
The first thing the JavaScript engine does is to create this global execution context and it gives you
two things.
First thing is a global object.
And the other thing is that this keyword in JavaScript everybody's favorite topic right and that this
keyword in JavaScript.
Well we have an entire video series on this so stay tuned.
But to start things off global execution context gives us these two things right off the bat when the
JavaScript engine starts up.
So let's test this assumption if what I just told you is correct.
That means I can just give an empty file to let's say the browser and I should have a global object
and the this keyword already defined without me having to do anything.
So let's go to some code and test this out right.
I've created the most basic web site ever.
We have an HMO file that simply says Hulu and a script Ach that has script RJ Yes that is completely
empty.
Now if I refresh your and run this based on what I just told you I should have.
Well the this keyword and look at that.
I do have access to the this keyword even though there is absolutely nothing in my JavaScript file and
I should also have access to the global object and in the browser the global object is window so I get
these two things that this keyword and window without even writing a piece of Javascript because the
browser has created a global execution context for me and you might be asking yourself.
Hold on.
Are these the same thing.
Well let's test that out.
This equals window that true Yep.
That's true.
That's the very first step that the JavaScript engine does for us the JavaScript engine is going to
create these two objects and these two objects are going to equal to one another.
For now Liz and by the way if we're using something like node the global object wouldn't be window.
Instead it'll be called global and to this global object we can assign variables.
Right.
If I go back to our example and I clear this if I say variable a equals true or alleges do Teddy if
I go to the window object now I open it up I see that I've added a variable to my global object that
is a equals Teddy and I can add functions and I can add different things to this global object.
So once we have done this what we call a creation phase in our JavaScript engine we then have a second
phase and that second phase is called the execution phase where you actually run your code.
Now we're going to expand on this a little bit but to review when code is run on the JavaScript engine
a global execution context is created.
And when you run a function a new execution context is added a function execution context and we start
running our code until everything gets popped up the stack and all of our code is run.
All right.
I think you're sick and tired of me saying global execution context over and over but hopefully this
made sense to you because in the next video we have another difficult term to cover.
I'll see you on that one by.